Avoid abstract type language (#432)
ietf-wg-jsonpath/draft-ietf-jsonpath-base: draft-ietf-jsonpath-base.md

Each parameter as well as the result of a function extension must have a declared type.

Declared types enable checking a JSONPath query for well-typedness
independent of any argument the JSONPath query is applied to.

{{tbl-types}} defines the available types in terms of the instances they contain.

| Type                 | Instances                       |
| :--                  | :------------------------------ |
| `ValueType`          | JSON values or `Nothing`        |
| `LogicalType`        | `LogicalTrue` or `LogicalFalse` |
| `NodesType`          | Nodelists                       |
{: #tbl-types title="Function extension type system"}

Notes:

> * The only instances that can be directly represented in JSONPath syntax are the literal and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The only instances that can be directly represented in JSONPath syntax are certain JSON values in `ValueType`, expressed as literals (which are limited to primitive values). ~~
```

>   primitive values of `ValueType`.

Reviewer 2: "literal _and_ primitive values"?

`true`, `false`, and `null` are commonly known as literals, and strings and numbers are primitive.  I don't think I've heard either set described by both terms.

Reviewer 3: JavaScript - where JSON took its data types from - knows [primitive types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#primitive_values) and [literals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#literals). So "literal and primitive values" seems not to be wrong.

Author: Fixed.

>   primitive values of `ValueType`.

Author: I like that. @cabo and @gregsdennis: WDYT?

>   primitive values of `ValueType`.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should have three two words together since they describe two different sets of values.

I would be happy with "literals and primitives" or "literals and primitives values."

Also...
![Screenshot_20230316-224716.jpg](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2676804/225579644-9d67181e-1d5e-40da-8d17-d47190058673.jpg)

>   primitive values of `ValueType`.

Reviewer: All of our literals express primitive values, so this is indeed a pleonasm ("doppeltgemoppelt").
It probably cannot hurt to mention this property, but not in a way that it seems that we are saying there are literals that are expressing non-primitive (structured) values.

>   primitive values of `ValueType`.

Reviewer 3: JSON was started by Mr. Crockford, taking a subset of JavaScript literals - especially object and array literals - for the definition of a data exchange format ... that's the history ... at least as I am aware of.

So in JSON context non-primitive (object and array) literals are well known, thus in contrast 'primitive literals' makes perfect sense.

>   primitive values of `ValueType`.

Reviewer: All of our literals express primitive values, so it is confusing to occasionally qualify "literals" with "primitive".
(It is also slightly wrong, but acceptably so.)

>   primitive values of `ValueType`.

Author: I've attempted a rewording.

* `Nothing` represents the absence of a JSON value and is distinct from any JSON value, including `null`.

> * `LogicalTrue` and `LogicalFalse` are unrelated to the JSON literals `true` and `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `LogicalTrue` and `LogicalFalse` are unrelated to the JSON values expressed by the literals `true` and `false`.
```

Author: Adopting manually.

  its declared result type.
* Each argument of the function can be used for the declared type of the corresponding declared
  parameter according to one of the following rules:
   * The argument is a function expression with declared result type that is the same as the declared type of the parameter or
     with declared result type `NodesType` and the declared type of the parameter is `LogicalType` and a conversion applies.

>    * The argument is a literal primitive value and the defined type of the parameter is `ValueType`.

Reviewer 2: "literal primitive" here again (but not part of your change)

Author: That's why I chose that wording. I'll change them both.

>      with declared result type `NodesType` and the declared type of the parameter is `LogicalType` and a conversion applies.

Reviewer: is "a conversion applies" an additional part of the condition?
I wouldn't think so.

Author: Correct. I'm changing the text.

>    * The argument is a literal or primitive value and the defined type of the parameter is `ValueType`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The argument is a primitive value expressed as a literal and the defined type of the parameter is `ValueType`.
```

Author: Adopting this change manually.

Reviewer: Sorry, I suggested this, but I'm still not sure that the fact that out literals can only express primitive values belongs here.  If you strike "primitive", this sidetrack is not opened.

>    * The argument is a query and the declared type of the parameter is `NodesType` or `LogicalType` and a conversion applies.

Reviewer: Same comment above, except this is a single phrase applying to one, but not the other, of the cases.  Maybe split them.

Author: Yes, I'm splitting them. Clarity beats verbosity.

| `$[?match(@.timezone, 'Europe/.*') == true]` | not well-typed as `LogicalType` may not be used in comparisons |
| `$[?value(@..color) == "red"]` | well-typed |
| `$[?value(@..color)]` | not well-typed as `ValueType` may not be used in a test expression |

> | `$[?bar(1==1)]` | not well-typed, where `bar` is a function with a parameter of type `LogicalType` and result type `LogicalType`, as `1==1` is neither a query nor a function expression with a suitable result type

Reviewer 2: I think it'd be neat to support this.  Let's discuss elsewhere.  For now, this is warranted.
